# GANTRY-AND-4R-ROBOTIC-ARM
Industrial automation deals primarly with automation of manufacturing.qualtiy Control and material handling processes.Gantry System is one of the pioneer platforms in Industrial material handling system.
A range of software tools and methods were found to be useful and necessary for efficient engineering and integration.In the present work the kinematic analysis of gantry robot is done using robo analyzer and C-prog Software.
A Gantry  robot (also called linear robot) is an industrial robot whose three principal axes of control are linear (i.e. they move in a straight line rather than rotate) and are at right angles to each other. The three sliding joints correspond to moving the wrist up-down, in-out, back-forth. Among other advantages, this mechanical arrangement simplifies the Robot control arm solution. It has high reliability and precision when operating in three-dimensional space. As a robot coordinate system, it is also effective for horizontal travel and for stacking bins. Gantry robots are controlled by mutually perpendicular active prismatic P joints that are aligned with the X, Y, Z axes of a Cartesian coordinate system. Although not strictly `robots’, other types of manipulators, such as computer numerically controlled (CNC) machines, 3D printers or pen plotters, also have the same  mechanical arrangement of mutually perpendicular active prismatic P joints.

Homogenous Transformation matrices were formerd by using D-H parameters to obtain the forward Kinematics of the robotic arm. An inverse kinematics solution was used to attain the joint variables and an algebric approach was preferred for solving the kinematic equations.in the present work kinematic analysis of 4R robot manipulator is carried out using Robo-Analyzer and C-prog software.
